---
parent:
  - "[[Masters thesis]]"
  - "[[Masters in public]]"
peer:
  - "[[pluriversality]]"
  - "[[institutional power]]"
  - "[[university elitism]]"
title: meta-thesis
---
- here live any displaced notes on format and process 
- purpose: understanding which methods, framings and perspectives have been useful for me, either through the thesis process or in constructing and arguing the thesis

---

- meta-commentary on the format, how my process and learning doesn't fit into linear format, what I do and don't want to share in public, how to retain singular perspective and participate in collective intersubjectivity all at once.
- why not work within/co-design with are.na community -- because my interests are wider, we all stem from many platforms. the fundamental building blocks of are.na still prioritise the centralised way. it is still built from a platforms perspective rather than perspective of ecosystems/interfaces/interoperability of existing filestores. much of what people bring into are.na either exists already in their file systems or another platform or is a link to elsewhere. the rest is free text that could go anywhere. it's the multi-filetype, 'connections' and interface that actually make it specialised. 
- submitting my digital garden as part and parcel of my thesis, to question and resist the form, to perform rigor without inherent linearity, to recognise and respect my knowledge lineage in the format it emerges rather than the institutional format I force it into
- as i develop my ideas through screenshots it makes me want to also use screenshots as evidence of experiential learning. screenshots are integral to the larger body of this work - screenshot relinking to source?? capturing metadata on screenshots too??
- its really confusing to be building at the same time a thesis about a practise which is a metathesis on the thesis and evidence of method of the thesis about the method
- Plus a portfolio attached that is supposed to be at once professional and personal, multi-view and singular, arts based and tech based
- I kinda just have to publish a lot of everything - professional is academic is political is personal
- in considering how to organise my ongoing notes in a way that follows my learnings I've now switched to using a 'purpose context' and 'task context' for ongoing reflections to echo those papers that spoke of tagging methods and also of subjective context being important - found that I was already semi-consciously splitting reflections between the purpose of methodological insights and the tasks if ongoing work. 
- In reading and noting relevant literature there are also meta-insights -- even with the very best setup I have found (Readwise -> obsidian) I find taking notes/annotating side by side with highlighting passages very cumbersome, its often easier to use separate devices, but then they don't 'zip' together into a consecutive form very well
- i prev had a page for each board with metadata for the board and then a lil preamble about the user and their other boards followed by a table with all of the pins and their metadata. this felt long and unnecessary as i had a table of the boards anyway and only wanted to transcribe fully where necessary. so i moved all the metadata into the overview table and took only the selected pins into a seperate table. i no longer needed a page for each board
- I Also lose the source for important chunks when a scholar quotes/mentions another scholar but not in the passage I'm highlighting, or if they use 'ibid'
- it's difficult to not end up going down rabbitholes in sourcing data from are.na and pinterest - this is partially the intentions of the sites and therefore the structure but also because I'm once again doing meta-research -- the content I'm studying can be of interest to me sociopolitically, personally, creatively, academically, professionally and even frequently to the exact subject of the thesis - self-exemplifying media. it is in these moments that I'm even more frustrated i can't quickly save these items for later, for when I'm exploring under a different context than data-selection.
- find that as I discover more about how it is useful and meaningful to organise fragments, that i am constantly evolving my own notes alongside it, which is incredibly useful and also a lot of transformative labour - this means both that my own notespace structure is always in multiple modes at once as i haven't yet automated the process, but also that it is very much important to provide automated means of importing existing banks of knowledge into these formats should anyone get use out of the systems i'm forming - this is of course covered somewhat by existing goals of interoperability etc but also due to the current disconnected/largely academic use of eg Solid and connected technologies, there are few people in the general sphere (eg those on Pinterest and to a large extent those on Are.na) that have data already in these more portable/useful formats - this is why i've resisted using anything other than markdown in my notes - but having come to the conclusion that a linked data format is the most useful, it seems best to work with the format closest to and commonly interlined with markdown, that is JSON-LD (available via [[content negotiation]] in Solid). I'm still figuring out how to ease the translation between JSON-LD and markdown, perhaps through YAML-LD. Dokie.li uses HTML+RDFa which is also a combo worth considering
- i need my own tool/technique to write about my tool/technique. difficult to do both at once, confusing. but i am desperate for the Thing pages and Thing (in context of my thesis) pages to be collated as one. 
- found it useful in analysis to swipswap back and forth between descriptive and interpretative and to merge and change themes often - messy but makes sense to update with each insight. also found it useful to determine saturation of a theme in terms of if i had a few alternates to quote - reduce to as few individuals as possible that i could quote all of the themes through, optimal examples
- there are always options for experimental writing styles if justified - poetry, my actual voice as written, can include weird parts within more structured whole, etc
- interesting that in learning more on the power of [[recombination]] I'm working more and more in this manner with my own literature reading and analysis. taking excerpts, forming categories, re-assessing the categories and their usefulness, re-categorising and re-excerpting until its only the core themes and most pertinent excerpts. It follows one of the current conclusions of my studies that the manual, attentive recombination is where there is potential for resistance, in extending and subverting and supporting parts of scholarly texts I am performing knowledge-remix in the same critical manner of the para-archival practises i'm studying.
- surprising that id end up caring so much about metadata when fundamentally i want to be able to shove something in without meticulously poring over the details (so i don't lose my flow) but I've found its important to see what we should and shouldn't be adding automatically or manually or at all
- these assemblages i'm studying can in themselves be 'meta-theses' - can be described similarly to [[autoethnography]] as connecting the personal to the larger socio-politics, situated reflexivity - "If you really want to learn a body of knowledge or skills (or whatever other learning area you define), it is really hard to beat becoming a curator for that area. In a sense, this is what academics have always done." (Cobb, 2010)
- I want to prioritise the significance of these assemblages to the individuals who use them but am more naturally inclined to discuss overall patterns and structures, hyperconnectivity from a hyperconnective brain. I'm interested in the insights that come from many perspectives when you bring together disparate but adjacent things. I value what a singular narrative can do but don't think I have the time to form the depth of relationship I'd need to make it valuable. Narratives are incredibly important to this research but I don't know how to select or specify whose narrative is more or less important to include here, I don't have the time for full case studies. 
- the Are.na userbase converges on the same conclusion as me, more than once. This both strengthens my specific arguments on the value of this format and extra-institutional knowledge work and also the general assertion that Are.na forms 'A collection of digital meta-theses' of scholarly value. 
- Whilst my thesis doesn't have room for its full articulation, I've begun a reflexive process I'm terming '[[techno-auto-archaeology]]', as informed by [[autoethnography]] and [[media archaeology]]. This allows me to catalogue and explain the insights I've gained through my own personal and academic practises through information technologies. Things I can now pin to specific formalisations or academic terminology were things I knew and learnt in practise and from informal sources, and in my inclination for subversion and de-institutionalisation I feel it important to explore how I arrived at particular principles common to design justice, xenofeminism, the digital commons, decentralised web, or similar, prior to any interaction with these concepts. A complete [[a techno-auto-archaeology of my information practises|techno-auto-archaeology of my information practises]] would make clearer some of my choices in principle and design of both the tool and my documentation site, as would [[provotypical tools for thought|further exploration]] of Smolicki's '[[provotypes|provotyping]]' methods. 