---
contextKind: purpose
contextDetails: understanding which methods, framings and perspectives have been useful for me, either through the thesis process or in constructing and arguing the thesis
---
- fundamentally I'm doing this because I have a fuzzy brain with many many fuzzy connections. i want to bring together my learning/resources/knowledge from different places and become effective cyborg with the most minimal external tech. actually let the tech work as extended brainspace without stealing energy and extra data. directly link my concepts to adjacent concepts without the bloat of platforms and 'content'. connect ideas to ideas and pathways to pathways in the most natural multibranched path I can. functionalise my data hoarding and connect it to all the other useful data hoarding. 
- Balancing my own values and my own practical needs and body-mind states with the requirements and possibilities of the institution us interesting in innumerable ways. It feels weird every time I'm either given access to or blocked out from resources and knowledge due to semi-arbitrary choices of the institution and political and commercial bodies around it 

---

emotional context - self-worth
- I keep wondering whether this research is too personal and only useful to me in particular. I have to remind myself that it is both exemplary of and tied up in a bunch of techno-social issues that speak to larger systems and echo the lived experiences of many others. I am also a chronic observer - I notice patterns and formulate concepts habitually and am simply formalising this, putting it into a more public forum where I'm required to cite sources and justify arguments and methods, which provides some structure and rigor to my thoughts, tests my ideas and clarifies my priorities. I know it is important because it focuses on information, on how multiply-marginalised people recapture connective online space and narrative, and how we function in the everyday within an information overload. I'm concerned with what information is valued on the level of the individual, the micro- and the meso-, and how individuals can realise resistive alternative futures by connecting across these levels, and from past through present through future.
- I gather it is entirely natural to have a myriad of doubts and uncertainties through a research project - or even that that is integral to the process - but when I struggle with something that feels inherently communal through social isolation I have a tendency to further isolate. 
- It is integral even to a human experience to doubt and fear, I just want to be able to better parse which doubts mean my methods need fixing and which doubts I need to hold and comfort and let ease.